Welcome back.
I want to improve this function just a little bit.
You see ideally we don't want to fill the cash in what we call the global scope.
That is to be living outside of this function ideally it's good practice to have memory or in this case
the cash to live inside of this function not polluting the global scope.
And there's many ways to do this based on the language in javascript that we can use something called
closures.
And this is what it would look like.
And I'm showing you this because when we get to dynamic programming you're going to see this pattern
a lot.
Luckily with Dynamic Programming the pattern is usually always the same.
So once you learn this then it becomes easier and easier.
So the way we bring this inside of the function is to well bring it in like that but the problem is
now that every time we run this we get long time each time because the cache gets reset every time the
function gets called.
So the cache becomes an empty object to get around this.
We can use closures in JavaScript and we can return another function.
So a function that returns a another function and in here will pass the parameter and
and we'll have the logic inside of this function.
That's it.
And because of something called closure we're able to access this cache inside of this child function.
Now this isn't a course about JavaScript so you can read up on closure on your own.
But this is just a way for us to avoid that global scope so that this time around we can do something
like this.
We can simply say cost normalized equals memorized ad to 80 and we'll run this function and we can actually
even remove the parameter from here so that we have flexibility.
Let me show you.
We have the memorized year which hopefully I guess Bell memorized so that now this function because
I ran it is going to return for me this function memorized equals this function.
That's literally what memorized ad to 80 returns and I have access to this cache variable so that in
here I can just say memorized five and memorized six.
If I had run I still get the same thing but if I do five and five and I have run look at that it's memorized
this function remembers that the parameter has not changed it's the same parameter and it's going to
check the cache and say I don't need to do all that silly calculation already have it.
Here you go.
Just using a hash table.
Here it is and what we just learned here is really powerful because it allows us to be very efficient
with our code something that we know interviewers love.
Companies love and dynamic programming allows us to use what we know now about memorization to optimize
our code.
Let's find out more in the next video.